hi this is pressure Locker your parents
or grandparents may have had milk
delivered to their home and this
mathematical problem relates to that
custom imagine a milkman carries a full
12 litre container of milk he needs to
deliver exactly 6 litres of milk to a
customer but the customer only has 8 and
5 liter jugs can he measure out exactly
6 litres for the customer while taking 6
litres for himself he can obviously use
all three containers in order to get
this measurement the story goes this
problem was asked to a school child in
France around the late 1700s he was so
interested in the problem that he went
on to pursue mathematics this child was
named Poisson and he's made many
contributions to statistics so the
question for you is can you figure it
out how can the milkman measure exactly
6 litres and take home 6 liters for
himself give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
the solution all right we have 12 litres
of milk and the other two containers
have 0 and 0 they start out with nothing
so we're going to pour this milk between
the containers and we're going to keep
track of how much milk is in each
container first we'll pour 8 litres and
fill up the 8 liter container so that
leaves 4 litres in the 12 eater
container and we filled up the 8 liter
completely we'll fill up the 5 liter
container so we now have the amounts of
3 & 5 we'll take that 5 liter amount and
put it back into the 12 litre container
so we have 4 plus 5 which makes 9 we
transfer the 3 litres from the 8 to the
5 litre jugs
we now fill up the 8 litre container
from the 12 litre jug so that leaves 1
liter of milk in the 12 litre jug and we
have 8 litres
filled in the a leader jug we fill up
the five liter container from the eight
liter jug and that leaves six liters for
the customer the milkman can then take
the five liters pour back into his
twelve liter container and he is left
with six and so now we've measured it
out the milkman can take home the six
liters of milk and he's provided six
liters exactly six liters for the
customer did you figure it out thanks
for watching this video please subscribe
to my channel I make videos on math and
game theory you can catch me on my blog
mind your decisions which you can follow
on Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
Locker and you can check out my books I
provided descriptions in the video
description